# Auth

## Overview

The Authentication section explains how to securely interact with Newline's API using access tokens and static IP addresses. Learn how to generate and refresh tokens to access protected resources.  

**Endpoints:**

- POST [Generate an authentication token: POST /auth](https://developers.newline53.com/reference/post_auth)

Newline requires access tokens and static IP addresses for authentication and authorization when requesting any resource endpoints. [POST /auth](https://developers.newline53.com/reference/post_auth) is used to obtain and refresh the required access tokens. Please work with your Relationship Team or the Newline Team in all environments to set up the IP Allowlist for your Program.  
To obtain an access token, you must submit a refresh token. After a program is set up, Newline will share your Program UID and HMAC key offline. These values are required for the refresh token and access token requests.

## Auth Flow

The authentication flow is as follows:

1. Create a JWT using the following claim:
```
{
  "iat": <current Epoch time>,
  "sub": <Program UID>
}
 ```

1. Sign the JWT to create a JWS with the shared key using HS512 / SHA-512.

2. Exchange for an access token by sending a request to [POST /auth](https://developers.newline53.com/reference/post_auth), using the JWS in the `Authorization` header.

3. Access resources through other endpoints using the returned token in the `Authorization` header for up to 8 hours.

4. Repeat the process as needed to continue authenticating successfully.

> **Note** 
> If a new access token is requested within the 8 hours of a previous token being successfully exchanged, the new token will still be generated. This does not expire the last token, and both tokens are usable simultaneously until their respective time is up. However, it is encouraged to use the new token and discard the old one if possible, as this behavior may change in the future.

### Available Operations

* [generateToken](#generatetoken) - Generate an authentication token

## generateToken

An access token can be generated by providing a refresh token. The generated token then can be used as an authentication token to access resources for up to 8 hours.

The Client will need to provide a JWS, its payload containing Program UID as `sub` (subject) and current Epoch time as `iat` (issued at timestamp), signed by an HMAC that has been shared offline previously using HS512. See the above guide for more details.

When Newline processes the `POST /auth` request, it validates that the `iat` claim is current. A 30-second difference is allowed to account for clock skew. Nevertheless, it is important that the refresh token be submitted as quickly as possible after it is generated to avoid failure in receiving an access token. Note that the returned access token is a valid JWS following `auth-` and the whole value (`auth-header.payload.signature`) must be provided in the `Authorization` header when making requests to other endpoints.

### Example Usage

<!-- UsageSnippet language="java" operationID="generateAuthToken" method="post" path="/auth" -->
```java
package hello.world;

import com.newline53.sdk.NewlineSDK;
import com.newline53.sdk.models.components.Security;
import com.newline53.sdk.models.operations.GenerateAuthTokenResponse;
import java.lang.Exception;

public class Application {

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {

        NewlineSDK sdk = NewlineSDK.builder()
                .security(Security.builder()
                    .programUid(System.getenv().getOrDefault("PROGRAM_UID", ""))
                    .hmacKey(System.getenv().getOrDefault("HMAC_KEY", ""))
                    .build())
            .build();

        GenerateAuthTokenResponse res = sdk.auth().generateToken()
                .call();

        if (res.object().isPresent()) {
            System.out.println(res.object().get());
        }
    }
}
```

### Response

**[GenerateAuthTokenResponse](../../models/operations/GenerateAuthTokenResponse.md)**

### Errors

| Error Type                 | Status Code                | Content Type               |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| models/errors/APIException | 4XX, 5XX                   | \*/\*                      |